[Music]
I have the honor of being your host your
emcee and I'd like to begin by
introducing our first speaker
William Davey is a longtime researcher
and writer a respected contributor to
probe magazine
he's been published as an essayist and
reviewer is the author of a monograph on
Clay Shaw which he further developed
into his illuminating and much admired
work let justice be done new light on
the Jim Garrison investigation
please welcome bill Davy
[Applause]
Thank You Alan Thank You Lee and good
evening everybody just give me a second
to get settled here and get my eyes on
okay all right
the topic of my presentation tonight are
the new documents in the season of
inquiry and by the season of inquiry
talking about essentially the 1970s and
it really was a season of inquiry
we have Watergate of course the pike
committee the Rockefeller Commission the
Church Committee and House Select
Committee on assassinations and it
seemed like at the time the politicians
in the country in general were more
interested in uncovering the deep
political state you know pardon the term
present company excluded of course
so we're gonna go into some of the
documentary evidence but oftentimes when
I've given talks to say a less
sophisticated audience just started off
I've asked the question what what is
what do you feel as the government's
official position on the JFK
assassination and people will say
something like well Oswald did it or
that Warren Commission thing and I said
no that's not the official position at
all official the official position of
the federal government is that JFK was
killed by a conspiracy and
it's right there it's in the that is the
copy or it's right here is the final
report the House Select Committee on
assassinations and God knows there's all
kinds of problems with the with the HSC
a you could do a whole symposium on some
of the infighting and backstabbing and
so forth but that aside they did do some
good work and a lot of that good work
found its way into into the report
itself so just want to take a quick look
at some of the findings of the of the
report and I hate talking at people
because everybody can read but a few of
these are worth noting first the
committee believes on the basis of the
evidence available to it that President
John F Kennedy was probably assassinated
as a result of a conspiracy further the
committee found that to be precise and
loyal to the facts it established it was
compelled to find that President Kennedy
was probably killed as a result of a
conspiracy compelled to find pretty
strong language even though they keeps
looking they're probably in there we're
talking about the scientific evidence
here and the evidence available to the
committee indicated that it was probable
that more than one person was involved
in the president's murder that fact
compels acceptance again with the
compelling and it demands a
reexamination of all that was thought to
be true in the past further they
conclude neither oswald nor ruby turned
out to be loners as they had been
painted in the 1964 investigation and
indeed and in the media ongoing as
matter of fact the committee found that
the CIA mafia cuban plots the CIA mafia
cuban plots had all the elements
necessary for a successful assassination
conspiracy people
motive means and the evidence indicated
that the participants might well have
considered using the resources at their
disposal to increase their power and
alleviate their problems by
assassinating the president again
talking about the scientific evidence
scientific acoustical evidence
establishes a high probability that two
gunmen - gun fired at President John F
Kennedy other scientific evidence does
not preclude the possibility of two
gunmen firing at the president and
they're talking about the stuck open mic
of the motorcycle policeman who
essentially recorded the assassination
as it happened further and talking about
the photographic evidence a flesh tone
comparison performed by analyzing
measurements of color values than this
is on Willis photograph number five a
flesh tone comparison performed by
analyzing measurements of color values
on an object located behind the west end
of the retaining wall this is on the
grassy knoll behind the west end of the
retaining wall confirmed that the image
perceived was actually a human being so
they found photographic evidence of a
human being behind the retaining wall on
the grassy knoll the panel did perceive
a very distinct straight-line feature
near the region of this person's hands
but it was unable to D blur the image
sufficiently to reach any conclusion as
to whether the feature was in fact a
weapon but they found a person and they
found what appeared to be a weapon
behind the grassy knoll during the
course of its investigation the
committee developed several areas of
credible evidence and testimony
indicating a possible association in New
Orleans and elsewhere between Lee Harvey
Oswald and David W Ferry
I'll assume most people know who David
Ferrie is and
so we won't have to go down that road a
committee found that the Clinton
witnesses in this may require a little
explanation what they're talking about
here is the town of Clinton Louisiana
which is just outside of Baton Rouge and
it was uncovered during the garrison
investigation and the subsequent Shaw
trial that Lee Harvey Oswald was seen in
Clinton Louisiana at a voter
registration incident would not only
David Ferrie
but Clay Shaw as well so the committee
found that the Clinton witnesses and
there was a whole cross-section of
people up there testifying to this the
committee found that the Clinton
witnesses were credible and significant
it was a judgment of the committee that
they were telling the truth as they knew
it if the witnesses were not only
truthful but accurate as well in their
accounts they're talking about the
Clinton Witnesses they established an
association of an undetermined nature
between Fairey Shaw and Oswald less than
three months before the assassination
the committee was therefore inclined to
believe that Oswald was in Clinton
Louisiana in late August early September
63 and that he was in the company of
David Ferrie if not Clay Shaw the
committee also found that there was at
least a possibility that Oswald and guy
Bannister were a quite acquainted now
Bannister Ferry and Shaw was triumvirate
of suspects and intelligence operatives
that had come into the orbit of the
garrison investigation and anybody who's
seen Oliver Stone's film JFK certainly
knows who these what players are so the
committee found that there was at least
a possibility that Oswald and Bannister
were acquainted will show later that
that was more than the possibility the
committee obtained independent evidence
that someone might have posed as Oswald
in Mexico in late September in early
1963 the imposter down in Mexico City
dr. Newman will probably be covering
some of that later
on the Warren Commission the committee
found that it failed to investigate
adequately a possibility of the
conspiracy to assassinate the president
that it presented its conclusions in his
report in a fashion that was too
definitive it overstated the
thoroughness of its investigation and it
is a reality to be regretted that the
Commission failed to live up to its
promise so summary of the House Select
Committee's conclusions President
Kennedy's assassination was the result
of a CIA mafia anti-castro conspiracy a
gunman fired from the grassy knoll
oswald was associated with farik Shaw
Bannister
Oswald was impersonated in Mexico City
and the Warren Commission was a failure
does that remind you of anybody
how select committees conclusions
vindicated Jim Garrison further
vindication vindication of garrison
comes in the form of the Church
Committee and this is a rather
misleading title document of Oswald in
New Orleans it's a hundred and
fifty-five pages and there's very little
in it on Walt in New Orleans again this
comes from the the files of the Church
Committee this is the cover sheet the
Oswald in the lines and wonders of
importance for us here is this interview
with Wendell Roche
now mr. Roche at that time was in charge
of the AI NS in New Orleans and that was
the Immigration and Naturalization
Service it's since become part of DHS
known as ice and Customs and Border
Patrol but back before 9/11 it was known
as AI NS and Wendell wrote was in charge
of the New Orleans office
they interviewed Roche and Justin can I
get can I get this slide magnified up
here on the laptop without missing
things up okay this actually might be
helpful so according to Roche the inss
role was determined who's an alien and
prevent unauthorized border crossings
etc as part of their duties they had the
responsibility of surveilling these
various Cuban groups in New Orleans and
there was a ton of them at the time
mainly these anti-castro groups so the
AI NS had them under surveillance
included in the surveillance was the
group of nuts as he calls him headed by
David Ferrie Roche knew the details of
ferries dismissal from Eastern Airlines
his various sort of details of his
private life etc and so as part of
surveilling these cuban groups they
picked up surveillance on David ferry
but he was because he was closely
aligned with his anti-castro groups but
as they were surveilling ferry in the
anti-castro groups they picked up
surveillance of Lee Harvey Oswald and as
we can see here Roach revealed that
during the course of their surveillance
they picked up Lee Harvey Oswald going
into the offices of ferries group the
offices of ferries group was at 5:44
Camp Street which was guy banisters
office and Oswald had used that address
that stamped that address on the
literature that he was hanging out in
New Orleans so he was seen going into
the offices of ferries group Bannister's
office and Oswald was known to be one of
the men
in the group here you have an
investigative body of the United States
government a person of wendell ROK's
admitting that in the course of their
surveillance routine surveillance they
picked up David Ferrie associating with
Lee Harvey Oswald and the two of them
going in to guide Bannister's office see
if we can blow this up a little bit
he also said that their uh their the
anti-castro Cubans had been trained by a
six-foot ex-marine out at Lake
Pontchartrain he could be referring to
Gerry Patrick hemming here just throw
that out there because he mentions he
sort of goes out of his way mentioning
his six-foot ex-marine his his his take
on garrison was that garrison had
something I read his reports in the
newspaper and they were correct
he received good intelligence whether he
was using her for politics or not Roach
noted that garrison was all eyes and
ears in the French Quarter further he
adds a little something extra to the
Oswalt story when Oswald was arrested
for the street scuffle with Carlos bring
gear in the summer of 1963 he was taken
into custody and as the official record
shows he first thing he did he asked for
an FBI agent which was suspicious in and
of itself but there was an extra part of
the story that hadn't been revealed at
least I had never heard of it until I
found this document and that is when
they took him into custody
Oswald would only speak in Russian so
when the N OPD had him they assumed he
was a Russian so they call AI NS who
would have of course they would have
responsibility for foreign aliens and so
forth so one of Wendell roaches
associates this guy Smith went to went
to the police station and he recognized
Oswald as being part of the banister
fairy group and said look this guy's an
American you know once Oswald had been
outed he stopped with the Russian and it
was then at that point he asked to see
an FBI agent but it was not until the i
ns guy had come in and said we
recognized him from from our
surveillance of day
Fairey and nguy banister as long as we
can probably skip this one it's just the
end of this when the church committee
investigators finally tracked down
wendell roach and they finally got a
hold of him this is what he said
I've been waiting 12 years for you guys
know waiting 12 years to talk to someone
about this no one had ever bothered to
run him down talk to him maybe he didn't
volunteer the information either but
it's rather shameful that the FBI and
the Warren Commission who were assigned
to investigate the New Orleans angle
didn't even come across this and this is
a representative of the federal
government so just blow this up
so as they were interviewing him over
the phone the church committee
investigator was letting him go on and
Roach began talking about Oswald he said
I saw him around frequently and I
recalled that he had an office in and as
you can see the the interviewer cut him
off
and I'm thinking myself what are you
doing Oswald was just obviously getting
ready to say I'm sorry I wrote just
getting ready to say that they had seen
Oswald going he had an office in guide
banisters building it was obviously
where he was going with that but the
investigator cut him off
unfortunately that is about it in the
files for Wendell drugs I could not find
any more follow-up from the church
committee and there was no transition of
this evidence over to the House Select
Committee and it's just a shameful lack
of follow up on these committees and
that we've got a body of the federal
government the AI NS who had seen Oswald
in the company of David Ferrie and guy
Bannister and again vindicating what Jim
Garrison had been saying all along now
what I want to do here is shift gears a
little bit in that I talked about again
this is out of the files of the Church
Committee because I think that's been an
unlined area for a lot of researchers
this is a testimony of Scott
Breckinridge Scott Breckinridge was
counsel for the CIA and he had written
the inspector general's report on the
CIA assassination plots it was written
by Breckinridge and Greer and signed off
by the IG Airmen and it came out of a
Drew Pearson column that had appeared in
the post at the time yeah it was in
response to the newspaper column
by Drew Pearson which had talked about
Castro plots and how they may have
backfired on the president and Bobby
Kennedy may be haunted by this but at
any rate the IG began their
investigation of of the assassination
plot against Castro and this is some of
what they came come came up with in in
there in the testimony of a Breckenridge
first of all he states that the only
person to have seen the port was Richard
Helms it was written for Helms airman
was the inspector general who signed off
of it off on it and Greer was the the
other author of it he would Helms
returned the report to the inspector
general what actually happened was they
had one original and one copy Helms
ordered a copy destroyed and the one
original got put in Helms's safe at CIA
headquarters that left one copy of the
IG report for obvious reasons Helms did
not want did not want that getting out
first of all Helms didn't like the
report he didn't like one of the IG s
conclusions was that they had concluded
that elimination of a dominant figure in
government will not necessarily cause
the downfall of the government so in
other words they're saying assassination
will not necessarily cause the downfall
of government Helms didn't like that he
liked he liked assassinations he thought
it couldn't lead to the downfall of a
government further on they're talking
about
they're talking about phase one and
phase two plots against Castro phase one
were the CIA mafia plots pre JFK and
ended under Eisenhower phase two were
also CIA mafia plots began around
November 61 sometime between November 61
in April 62 and this is the William
Harvey gr rifle type plots some of the
earlier plots to assassinate Castro were
concurrent with the Bay of Pigs invasion
so in other words at the Bay of Pigs
operation major component of that was
the assassination of Castro this
information was never shared with the
president as it goes on here yes was
that ever authorized by the White House
the president in the Department of
Defense answer we have no record of for
it
Castro assassination plots at the Bay of
Pigs not authorized this goes on this
speaks again about the Bay of Pigs and
the assassination plots Breckinridge
says I don't think we ever found a clear
record of the original authorization so
senator Baker then asks is that a fair
is it fair to say that the phase one of
this operation included a plan for
assassination of the leader of a foreign
state without any authority may be any
agency a branch of government outside of
the CIA it is fair to say that our
records did not disclose such authority
so on the question of presidential
authority for these plots as I know to
my marginalia here the answer is
unequivocal there were none the
President did not authorize
any of this activity and this is coming
right from the CIA's own inspector
general report that's why it's key I
believe further they're talking about
Sheffield Edwards this is the briefing
of phase 2 by Helms in Sheffield Edwards
to Robert Kennedy they told them at the
time that phase 2 phase 1 was obviously
pre fkfk and stopped and that phase 2
they did not notify them about even
though it was an ongoing operation they
told them that there were no current
assassination plots and then they're
asking who within the CIA approved the
making of these false statements to
attorney general Kennedy making of the
false statements to RFK Sheffield
Edwards and Helms knew and approved
making false statements to to RFK this
would indicate that Colonel Edwards knew
and that mr. Helms knew and knew that
they were making false statements to RFK
when they told him that phase 1 had been
switched off and phase 2 there was no
face to going on see we have here this
is CIA director McComb he had not been
advised of any of CIA assassination
plots in other words they were worried
that he would have stopped the
assassination plots had he known McComb
the answer is yes so they didn't tell
him it was just the director of the CIA
so Helms and Sheffield Edwards and
Harvey withheld all this information
from the CIA director outside of phase
one and Phase two there were other
Castro SS
plots as you can see Breckinridge says
yes in response to that there was a one
plot about blowing up an electric plant
in Havana while trying to get in a
position to assassinate Castro that was
an adjunct to these phase one and Phase
two plots sort of off the books off the
shelf kind of thing
there was another CIA plot where there
was an assassin and tried three times
and didn't get into Cuba and after the
Bay of Pigs occurred he went on to some
other activity and that was all that
Breckenridge had but the CIA there were
other CIA plots to kill Castro prior to
the Bay of Pigs with this one assassin
trying three times
they're talking about various again the
topic talking about other plots here
dropping in Cuban rifles with silencers
to be used kill Castro correct also
talking about the the syringe with
poison it was is actually a poison pen
that was given to a CIA assassin and he
was told that he had the approval the
tacit approval of RFK to proceed with
the the assassination of Castro that was
Desmond Fitzgerald who was telling this
to M am lash relent Rolando qubilah code
name AM lash see here they're talking
about other miscellaneous schemes prior
to August 1960 because in Kennedy wasn't
even in office yet and again Castro
assassination plots ongoing prior to JFK
even taking office we find no evidence
of any of these schemes proved at any
level higher than division if if that
breckenridge that is correct
there was no approvals as we seen there
was no approval by the executive for any
of these operations so something I I
didn't know about the record is not too
conclusive but when mr. Colby they're
talking about William Colby taking over
at CIA director in August of 63
instructed that if it had not already
been terminated it should be terminated
and they're talking about the zr rifle
assassination plots within CIA within
CIA and apparently as late as 1973 this
was still an ongoing operation it was
still on the books now they didn't know
if it been switched off or not and we'll
touch a little bit more on CI rifle in
just a sec
we thing I want to mention here this
gets brought up a lot in the context of
garrison and garrison being mobbed up
and under the thumb of various mafiosos
and they like to cite this that the CIA
knew about garrison talking with Johnny
Roselli in Las Vegas and it was
disturbing to them
first of all garrison was investigating
the assassination of the president he
should be talking to Johnny Roselli
certainly the House Select Committee
wanted to talk to him and they did and
after that he ended up his remains ended
up in an oil bear and an oil barrel and
floating outside of Miami but at any
rate what they were disturbed about were
not that garrison was mobbed up they
were concerned that Roselli was probably
spilling the beans on on the Castro
plots to garrison
it says here they're quoting from
another CIA document unhappily it now
appears that garrison may all note may
also know this they're talking about the
Castro plots they may also know garrison
may also know it because Roselli was
spilling the beans to him that's what
they were worried about not that he was
mobbed up which he was not so that's
what they were disturbed about wrapping
up here okay in there talking about
Desmond Fitzgerald and the AM lash plot
in the poison pen that was given to M
lash and told that it was he had the
assurances of Robert Kennedy this was
approved by RFK fao schwarz Jr who was
counsel asks there was no approval
sought from Robert Kennedy Breckenridge
that is correct so they didn't even ask
for approval from RFK they just went
ahead and did it
this goes on to mention that there was a
contingency fund of about a hundred
thousand dollars that could be used for
these types of operations off the book
type operations unbowed funds that could
be used for assassination plots foreign
or domestic and no one would be the
wiser this is actually one of the pages
from the IG report itself and in the
report they they asked can the CIA state
or imply that was merely an instrument
of policy CIA not in this case well it
was true that phase two was carried out
in an atmosphere of intense Kennedy
pressure such as not true of the earlier
phase phase one was initiated and sixty
under the Eisenhower administration and
again phase two was never revealed to to
RFK or JFK that's just the second page
of that and I just want to move on
quickly I mentioned the Zr rifle program
that was the assassination program run
by William Harvey this is a document
from the CIA and in 1976 probably as the
HSC a was ramping up they did a review
of the Zr rifle file and in so doing
they found these various zr rifle files
and note the early date spree JFK
there's a zr rifle administrative
financial folder dated October 13 1960
and there's they're talking about using
one of their assets Q J win back in 1959
so as you can see the Zr rifle program
predates JFK by quite a significant
period that's just a continuation of
that moving on quickly here so they
don't want to I want to be mindful of
time Hale Boggs is a member of the
Warren Commission he was a congressman
from New Orleans and a lot of people
like to cite him as one of the Warren
commissioners who didn't believe the
conclusions didn't believe the Magic
Bullet theory well the FBI released
these documents and in 1967 Boggs asked
for a meeting with Deak DeLoach who was
J Edgar Hoover his right hand if you
will and he met with Boggs and Boggs's
office and Boggs stated that garrison
was making New Orleans and Louisiana the
laughingstock of the world and he he
Boggs Nix praised the FBI and indicated
that he had always been completely
satisfied regarding the FBI's
thoroughness he he said that garrison
had nothing he wouldn't be certain to
garrison had nothing which might being
disgrace upon him Boggs in his home
state etc so here Boggs has reread Boggs
has reread much of the Warren Commission
report just to make absolutely certain
there were no loopholes he stated he had
found none so Boggs was no advocate of
the Warren Commission and he was
certainly no advocate of garrison as he
was informing on him to the FBI
further discredit ation of garrison and
the critical community came in a 1967-68
broadcast by CBS and it was hosted by
Dan Rather Walter Cronkite and their
Dallas CBS reporter Eddie Barker it
turns out that Eddie Barker was an FBI
informant on this date Eddie Barker
special is in charge contact a news
director of ka b LD radio and TV Dallas
advised me confidentially that the CB
that CBS was planning a five hour
documentary he stated the primary
purpose of this was to take the books
which are critical of the Warren Report
particularly rush to judgment and tear
him apart he indicated that this
documentary was not going to be critical
of the FBI and in fact would support the
Warren Report he requested that they
keep this information be kept
confidential and that he would give more
details at a later date very very
accommodating of CBS Miami I'll just
conclude here with something that's not
out of the files but was actually in
Vanity Fair magazine about two years ago
yeah 12 2009 actually and in it they're
talking about William Manchester who
wrote the book to death of the president
Manchester I should say Warren went to
Manchester and gave him the first draft
of the commissioners report of the
Warren Report and said here we'd like
you to read it and approve its findings
on behalf of the Kennedys now is that
any way to run an investigation you're
having the Warren
for the report with your name on it
vetted by the family of the of the
murdered president that's a disgrace
frankly this I apologize for the
eligibility of but this was an article
from a magazine called marine life in
1977 it was written by a reporter named
Richard Resnick off Jim do Jeanne oh who
will be on later can vouch as I I can
that if it Resnick off dug this up it's
as good as gold and what he's revealed
is a little hard to read it's a hard to
read here oral Warren had attended a
Judicial Conference in the state of
Florida at that conference he confided
to reso cough source who was a federal
judge that and a friend of Warren's that
he warned was ashamed of himself and of
the what the Commission had done and
that the whole thing had been a
whitewash and he had been coerced into
it by President Lyndon Johnson which we
knew so again this is this is from a an
unnamed source but if every confidence
in this reporter Richard Resnick off if
he's got a source that said it can be
pretty damn sure that that he said it so
even have Earl Warren the man whose name
is on cover of the Warren Report
revealing that the whole thing was was a
cover-up a whitewash and that he was
actually ashamed and it's it's it's a
sad commentary and especially I was
reading the inscription on the on the
way in today out there and it says
your services as informed citizens will
be necessary to the peace and prosperity
of the world and that that really
touched me and I and I hope that my
little presentation tonight has helped
you be a more informed citizen citizenry
thank you three times
[Applause]
[Music]
you